


You start with an Incurable Infection.
Stage 2 Infection begins at 30%, stage 3 at 65%.
Tree stumps always drop honey.
Honey treats 3% Infection, Herbal Antibiotics treats 8%, Blue Antibiotics treats 20%.
You retain all debuffs upon death.
Dying from infection is gameover!
Airdrops contain one Mineral Water, one Steak and Potato and one Trauma Kit. With a small chance of beaker.
Added small chance of feral day spawns
Added small chance of radiated night spawns
Added zombie variety in the snow biome.
Increased zombies spawns during horde nights (+20%).
Increased amount of wild spawned zombies.
Cleared areas will respawn zombies faster.
Added recipes to dismantle regular ammo.
Increased zombie loot despawn time by 10 mins.
Doubled animal corpse despawn time from 5 to 10 minutes.
Greatly lowered harvest quantity on salvaging.
Greatly lowered butcher amount on animals.
Increased entity health by 20%.
Greatly lowered ammo quantity in loot.
Increased Tier 2 (iron) melee tool/weapon damage by 20% (excludes sledge and fists).
Added snowberry farming, which can be cooked into snowberry juice.
Increased vending machine prices to 200%.
Player sell price to traders reduced from 20% to 10%.
Trader sell price to players increased from 300% to 500%.
Dyes can be sold for 20 dukes each.
Corn bread/cob and baked potato unlocked without Master Chef.
Lowered quest reward quantity by ~50%.
Bullet proof glass repairs with broken glass.
Added painkiller to First Aid kit x2, First Aid kit cures concussion.
Lowered huntsman perk to 1 rank. Increases butcher by 34%.
Added diamond blade trap. Lasts 2.5x longer, deals 40% more dmg.
Buffed serrated blade, 100% bleed chance.
Chainsaw can use serrated blade.
Machete can use weighted head.
Reenabled Blessed Metal mod, rare loot, increases base damage to zombies by 15%.
Increased stack size of cobble/concrete to 1200.
Added bucket of water to concrete mix recipe (300).
Added starting Primitive Quality 4 weapon and 1 related perk point from love letter.
Fresh food removed from loot.
Premade drinks removed from loot, including boiled water.
Lowered chance of corn harvest from wild crop (75% chance of getting 1 corn).
Rebalanced quest rewards so they aren't so over powered.
Bird nests (Waiting for a chicken) respawn loot after 15 real hours.
Added super corn meal and bread, added to tier 4 recipe ingredients.
Lower casino coin rewards from quests by 25%.
Doubled casino coin bonus from daring adventurer.
Increased stick chance for iron arrows/bolts and steel arrows/bolts. 60% for iron, 70% for steel.
Increased impact damage for flaming arrows/bolts.
Increased inventory size to 50 slots, added 1 extra crafting queue slot.
Lowered starting carry from 27 to 20.
Each rank of Pack Mule gives 5 carry capacity.
Vending machines restock every 30 days.
Traders restock every 7 days.
Get 1 less weapon/tool part from scrapping.
Items that require their own parts to craft will need their own repair kit, whichs will use 1 part of their type.
Added a second seat for the gyrocopter.
Slightly increased storage size of vehicles. Except 4x4.
Removed most of the boar spawns in Grace's mansion.
Grace gives rotting flesh instead of raw meat.
POI farm plots can no longer be used, except for snowberries and mushrooms.
Living off the land no longer increases crop yield, only lowers farm plot cost and unlocks seeds recipes.
Harvesting player crops downgrades plants to seedling.
Removed Sexual Tyrannasaurus and added the effect into the individual melee perks.
Replaced Charismatic Nature perk with Survival Instinct, which targets self.
Each point in Survival Instinct increase max Health/Stamina, Entity/Block damage, XP gain and carry capacity.
Added Trauma Kit, a cure all item, but super rare. Can also be crafted.
Increase Pipe Baton attack speed from 38/minute to 48/minute.
Increased Stun Baton damage from 11.8 to 15
Power attacks don't pause stamina regen.
Glass Jars can no longer be crafted.
Food items that require water to craft will refund jar on consumption.
Cooked canned food has a 3% chance of dysentery. Uncooked is 10% and no healing.
Boiled water has a 5% chance of dysentery.
New Tier 3 recipes for chicken rations and miso
A lot of recipes have increased costs.
Chickens have a 10% chance of giving an egg when butchered.
There IS a cure for your infection, but you're gonna need to find it!
"Master Mode" is an optional addition for making the game even more difficult to stay alive.